---
layout: page
title: Create scaffolding
subtitle: GitHub
description: A guide to creating scaffolding files in a GitHub repo
author: mkavana
date: 01 Jun 2020
post-number: 11.9
category: add-content
position-in-category: 9
include-in-pre-reqs: "false"
include-in-quickstart: "false"
include-in-azdevops-quickstart: "false"
video_url: "none"
---

This guide describes creating placeholder files, for the `MicrosoftDocs/learn-pr` GitHub repository (repo), by using the Docs Scaffolding extension in Visual Studio Code (VSC).

<!-- {% include prerequisites.html %} -->

## Topics in this guide

- [Install Docs Scaffolding extension](#scaf-install)
- [Fork and clone a repository](#scaf-fork)
- [Create a new branch](#scaf-new-branch)
- [Add scaffolding/ placeholder files](#scaf-add-files)
- [Edit, save and push files](#scaf-push)

{% include video.html %}

## Install Docs Scaffolding extension {#scaf-install}

1. Open VSC, select **Extensions** icon from the left sidebar menu.
1. In the "Search Extensions" field, enter **docsmsft.docs-scaffolding**.
1. Select and install the **docsmsft.docs-scaffolding** extension.

> **Note**:
> For help installing the Docs Scaffolding extension, refer to [https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=docsmsft.docs-scaffolding](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=docsmsft.docs-scaffolding).
>

## Fork and clone a repository {#scaf-fork}

1. Open a browser, then sign into GitHub.
1. On your GitHub landing page, follow the **Single Sign-On** link (SSO), then provide your v- credentials.
1. Go to the repo you want to fork.

    For example, go to [https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/learn-pr/tree/0f454b7bd5c67b278a71c9b7eb4c3caa84dfe18e](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/learn-pr/tree/0f454b7bd5c67b278a71c9b7eb4c3caa84dfe18e).

1. Choose **Fork**.
1. Clone *your fork* onto your computer (locally).

> **Note**:
> For help with forking and cloning, refer to [Fork a repository]({{site.baseurl}}/download-files/fork-repo.html).
>

## Create a new branch {#scaf-new-branch}

1. Open your local clone in VSC.
1. In VSC, create a new branch.

    For example, create a new branch named `NEW-module-name`.

1. In the **VSC Explorer** pane (left sidebar), navigate to subfolder you require.

    For example, navigate to the subfolder `~/learn-pr/learn-pr/student-evangelism/`.

1. Add a new folder to store the files for each module.

    For example, create a new folder named **tech-resiliency**.

## Add scaffolding files {#scaf-add-files}

1. In **VSC Explorer**, navigate into newly created folder.

    For example, navigate to the folder `~/learn-pr/learn-pr/student-evangelism/tech-resiliency`.

1. In **VSC Explorer**, right-select, then choose **Learn: Create module in NEW folder**.

    For example, from inside the **tech-resiliency** folder, right-select then choose **Learn: Create module in NEW folder**.

1. From the **Select module pattern** dialog, choose **Standard**.
1. Add a name for the module, then choose **ENTER**.

## Edit, save and push files {#scaf-push}

1. Edit the scaffolding/ placeholder files in VSC as necessary.
1. Save, stage, and commit your file changes.
1. Push the files to *your fork* on GitHub.
1. On GitHub, create new pull request (PR) and configure PR as follows:

    - merge from `your fork` > *your branch*
    - merge into the `MicrosoftDocs/learn-pr` repo > *master branch*

> **Note**:
> For links to useful resources, refer to the **Contributing to Microsoft Docs** section of [Links to useful resources]({{site.baseurl}}/appendices/useful-links.html).
>

{% include appendices.html %}

{% include paginator.html %}
